What is CSS? 
Cascading Style Sheets, fondly referred to as CSS, is a simple design language intended to simplify the process of making web pages presentable. 
CSS handles the look and feel part of a web page. 
Using CSS, you can control the color of the text, the style of fonts, the spacing between paragraphs, how columns are sized and laid out, what background images or colors are used, as well as a variety of other effects. 
CSS is easy to learn and understand but it provides a powerful control over the presentation of an HTML document. CSS is combined with HTML.

Advantages of CSS 
 CSS saves time - You can write CSS once and then reuse the same sheet in multiple HTML pages. You can define a style for each HTML element and apply it to as many web pages as you want. 
 Pages load faster - If you are using CSS, you do not need to write HTML tag attributes every time. Just write one CSS rule of a tag and apply it to all the occurrences of that tag. So, less code means faster download times. 
 Easy maintenance - To make a global change, simply change the style, and all the elements in all the web pages will be updated automatically. 
 Superior styles to HTML - CSS has a much wider array of attributes than HTML, so you can give a far better look to your HTML page in comparison to HTML attributes. 
 Multiple Device Compatibility - Style sheets allow content to be optimized for more than one type of device. By using the same HTML document, different versions of a website can be presented for handheld devices such as PDAs and cellphones or for printing. 
 Global web standards – Now HTML attributes are being deprecated and it is being recommended to use CSS. So it’s a good idea to start using CSS in all the HTML pages to make them compatible with future browsers.

CSS comprises of style rules that are interpreted by the browser and then applied to the corresponding elements in your document. 
A style rule is made of three parts: 
 Selector: A selector is an HTML tag at which a style will be applied. This could be any tag like or etc. 
 Property: A property is a type of attribute of HTML tag. Put simply, all the HTML attributes are converted into CSS properties. They could be color, border, etc. 
 Value: Values are assigned to properties. For example, color property can have the value either red or #F1F1F1 etc.